---
title: Puncher
parent: Engineering
notebook: engineering
date: 2024-02-22
signatures:
- "Ayla Clark"
- "Caleb Carlson"
- "Tucker Nielson"
- "Thomas Reid"
nav_order: 19
has_children: false
---

{: .design}
# Define Problem

After using our kicker in a few competitions, we noticed that it was negatively affecting our skills scores. Therefore, we decided to reconsider our catapult design to improve our performance in matches and increase our skills scores. We require our new design to be fast and accurate in grouping when shooting tri-balls so that we can score as many tri-balls as possible during a push.

{: .problem}
We need a catapult that can be fast-paced to save time and accurate enough to create a good grouping for skills
 

{: .design}
# Generate Concepts

We can make a catapult in one of three ways: Puncher, slapper, or kicker. The puncher design works like a real one, where the tri-balls sit in a box or pocket and the puncher builds tension till it launches at the tri-ball, hitting them across the field. The slapper hits the tri-balls from the side, which only contacts for a second and has a more predictable grouping. A kicker is similar to a slapper, but it hits from the underside and causes the tri-balls to follow a higher arc and make predictable grouping patterns. There are fixed and elevated catapults, but fixed catapults often face blocks that interfere with match loading, which is why elevated blockers are becoming more common.

{: .decision} 
After some deliberating we decided on a puncher because it is fast and we can get good grouping for skills and even in matches

{:.design}
# Construction

During the construction phase, we took inspiration from one of our sister teams who had used a polycarbonate seat for the tri-balls and a C-channel for the puncher head. However, we wanted to add more power without breaking more rubber bands, so we devised a way to bind them together. We placed the rubber bands underneath the puncher and banded them down, running them off of white spaces to ensure they roll smoothly and do not rub against a corner. By doing so, the rubber bands only pull on the catapult itself, giving it more power when it comes up to hit the tri-ball. We also added a ratchet to keep the pressure off the motor from the rubber bands to prevent it from cranking too hard when drawing back and back tracking. 


{:.design}
# Testing

For side hang testing we did the same testing as hanging elevation just in a different location. After each set of ten tests, we will convert the results into a percentage to assess the overall performance of our robot. This will help us identify any major flaws in our design, which we can either adjust or eliminate based on the test results.

## Results 

| Launching |
|:---|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Test 1 | 90% |
| Test 2 | 70% | 
| Test 3 | 100% |


{:.design}
# Summary 

After testing we think that our new catapult will help our skills score tremendously with a higher skills core we will be higher ranked and have a better chance at qualifying for worlds at state. This will also help us in matches so we can be quicker and bowl a lot more accurately because the catapult isn't in the way. 