---
title: Elevated Catapult
parent: Engineering
notebook: engineering
date: 2023-01-05
signatures:
- "Ayla Clark"
- "Caleb Carlson"
- "Tucker Nielson"
- "Thomas Reid"
nav_order: 14
has_children: false
---

{: .design}
# Define Problem

We require an intake mechanism that can easily pick up the tri-balls from the ground and transfer them to the catapult, without taking up too much space like our previous robots. Additionally, the intake mechanism should be able to grip the tri-balls firmly without exerting excessive force on the motor. 

{: .problem}
We need to choose a catapult that can elevate to avoid robots with blockers and fire at a high rate.

{: .design}
# Generate Concepts

 We already generated some concepts in the rebuilding entry so here is a summary of the concepts. When it comes to designing an intake mechanism, there are a few different options to choose from, including a single stage, double stage, and claw. A single-stage intake mechanism has one roller with rubber bands that helps to intake tri-balls. A double stage is similar but has an additional roller, making it bulkier and heavier, which can make it more challenging to use. On the other hand, a claw mechanism only clamps onto a single tri-ball to move it. While it is slower than the other two options, it cannot put tri-balls into a robot.

Considering these factors, we decided to create a new intake mechanism that would be more efficient and user-friendly. While our previous double-stage intake mechanism performed well, it was bulky and challenging to use. Therefore, we chose to design a new single-stage intake mechanism that would be less bulky and easier to operate. This new mechanism would allow us to intake objects quicker and more effectively into our elevated catapult than the previous one.

{: .decision} 
After some deliberation we decided that we would use a kicker as our form of launching tri-balls this would also be very easy to make it elevate.

{:.design}
# Summary 